>> Jon Kuperman: For this next section,
we're gonna be talking about Lighthouse
web audits, and I think Lighthouse is
the best introduction into these
performance characteristics in general.
So before now in the course, we've been
covering a lot of observational stuff,
observing the network, observing the DOM
and the CSS, and playing with all that.
But we haven't really gotten into,
how the application actually functions,
fast or slow, and I think Lighthouse
is like the best first start
because it's super user friendly,
it's pretty well-defined issues.
And we'll kind of use Lighthouse to
kind of eventually springboard into
the performance and
the memory tabs themselves.
So Lighthouse and,
tools like it have kind of a long history,
as I mentioned in the DevTools history,
I think the first application to
kind of do this,
at least the first popular one was YSlow.
I may well get this wrong,
please correct me in the chat, but
the first one that I kind of heard of,
and so this was a browser extension, and
you would install it, and
it would do a lot of the similar things.
The idea is that it has some rule set
of what makes a fast application,
it refreshes the page, it measures a bunch
of stuff by adding instrumentation.
And then it gives you back, sort of like
grades or scores, based on how long yours
took to do X compared to the average,
something like that.
I think they're a really cool idea.
I think that with the web vitals
that we have now added, and
those being kind of open source and
openly discussed,
we've gotten to a really great point
with this kind of performance audit.
But I think this idea has been around for
quite a long time of just like a top-level
analyzer or overview of your site.
Google had their own before Lighthouse
called Page Speed Insights, very similar.
You would run a web URL.
It would run a bunch of things.
Some of the limitations here are, they
wouldn't work on local projects, right?
They would require an external URL.
So you'd have to deploy your project
before you could run an analysis with
them, which also meant that it was like
hard to recreate certain conditions and
run the analysis, but
they worked pretty well.
So then many years ago, Google added
this new idea of lighthouse, and
with it, instead of being
a website that you would run,
they added it to the Chrome Dev Tools.
And therefore,
you can run it on any specific conditions
with any kind of local application.
And the basic way it looks is like this,
we covered it a little bit ago.
But you started choosing what
kind of device, which sections or
categories of audits to run.
And then this kind of different mode
of should we snapshot what it's like on
the initial page load,
what it's like right now, or
do you wanna capture a time span and
we'll analyze those things?
Which I think provides us with some
really good flexibility for analyzing,
you could have a simple, hey,
this is my marketing page.
How fast does it load?
You could also have, I have a long
running application, like a video game,
and I really wanna just capture an audit
of this specific action, so cool.
So the thing to talk about here is these
categories, so we have performance,
accessibility, best practices, and SEO.
For the performance category, we're
basically we're looking here at page load
speed and responsiveness,
how fast does the page load?
How quickly does it become responsive?
And does it stay responsive
during the time span?
What resources are used and fetched,
like JavaScript, images, fonts?
Do those things block the render?
Do they block the main thread?
And this is really where a lot of
these web core vitals come into play.
So it'll measure your first contentful
paint, the largest contentful paint,
how much cumulative layout
shift there was during loading,
how long time to interactive like,
how long it took until the page is usable.
Hover and clicks work on the total
blocking time, so any delays caused by
scripts loading in, a lot of larger
companies will kind of invent their own.
The one that I always liked when I worked
at Twitter was we had time to first tweet,
which would be how long does the page
load take before you could say hello and
tweet it out, basically.
How long does it take before the first
tweet is loaded in your timeline and
you can actually see it?
So, larger companies might come up
with their own kind of ideas here, but
these are really nice generic ones where
these are some important things to know.
So that's the performance category,
then we have the accessibility category,
basically, how compatible is your
website with assistive technologies?
Somebody's using a screen reader,
if somebody needs keyboard shortcuts,
does the markup render properly?
Does it make use of ARIA roles?
Are the colors compliant?
Is there good enough contrast?
All sorts of things like this.
So it's a really nice way of automatically
sort of running it, checking for images,
and whether or
not they have alt attributes so
they'll read aloud to screen readers.
Whether forms have labels so
the screen reader could read it out.
One caveat with all these things
is really nothing beats real
users really using your application.
For both accessibility and performance,
the best kind of thing is to user case
studies or real user metrics, things
like that, but as far as automated stuff
that we can do and we can add to our
CI/CD pipeline, this is very good.
The next one is best practices, so this is
like quality of your code and security, so
making sure that all your
connections use https.
There was a big push years ago,
when we used to say HTTPS is good for
these types of requests,
HTTP is better for
we have fully moved on to the all HTTPS.
There was all those cool initiatives,
like HTTPS everywhere and the,
I can't remember the name of it now,
the free HTTPS certs initiative
>> Speaker 2: Let's Encrypt.
>> Jon Kuperman: Let's Encrypt, backed by
all these major companies, so it's free to
get these certificates now and most
deployment sites install them for free.
So we're trying to move over to everything
being HTTPS, no matter what it is,
not using any deprecated APIs, things
that might break your website later.
Security concerns, like not using
inline styles or JavaScript that
could have cross-site scripting attacks,
efficient use of browser features.
So if there's a better image
format you could be using,
make sure that you're using it,
things like that.
The last one is SEO.
So search engine optimization,
making sure your application is
as discoverable as possible.
This breaks down into just
a lot of different things,
can the page be crawled by SEO bots?
Is it mobile friendly?
Does it use the correct status codes?
Are the meta tags there?
This might be important to you, might not
be important to you, if you're building
a internal only tool, this might
not be the most important thing.
And that's why I think it's cool with
Lighthouse that you can toggle the things
that you care about, so if you don't care
about SEO, you can toggle that off and
it'll make the Lighthouse report
a bit faster to run, cool.
With that, let's move into a lesson
where we can kinda go together and
look at a Lighthouse Audit together,
and then we'll move into an exercise
that you all can do on your own.